Make sure we're rolling.
Yeah, we're rolling.
Isn't that cool?
It's so small.
I know.
Okay, number one.
And just don't even think about it.
I want it.
I'm actually used to being taped.
I'll check it periodically to make sure everything's going okay, which it is.
And so your publishing director, why don't we just start and tell me what a publishing director does.
Oh, that's like the hardest question you could possibly ask me.
Everything else is easy.
It's actually a...
It was a job that was sort of created for me, or, you know, as I rolled along.
I don't know that... What did you roll along doing?
What kind of stuff?
Well, let me give you just, I'll just give you the biggest history.
It was when I first joined Yale University.
In 71.
In 71, that's right.
It was one of my first jobs out of college, and I just was interested in publishing, so I started in the sales department.
And you went where?
To school?
I had graduated with a B.A.
in art history from Smith College.
My daughter graduated from Smith College two years ago with a degree in French and art history.
Art history was like, you know, at the time I went, you know, Smith was great.
So it was interesting at them.
And at the time I started here, I knew they did art books, and I liked that part of it.
But the art book part was, you know, just one of the many lists they did, not particularly big.
And the whole growth of that was particularly interesting to me because I actually loved the books and I knew some of the people.
And so I think I've had some part in encouraging the editors to expand that and ever expand it.
It's quite a great success story.
Yeah, it is actually.
And it is actually, as a part of our list, interesting, you know, the whole history of Yale University Press starts from, you know, being a university press that wasn't that much different from
than other university presses.
And if you think about it, a small university press at the time, we were bigger than other university presses at the time, but when you think about it now, we were very small.
And so we had a small staff, everybody multitasked, we had a small list.
Are you talking about from the beginning or when you came in?
From when I came in.
So it was pretty small then.
It was pretty small.
I mean, they didn't think of themselves as small then, but if I think of its size then and its size now, it is apples and oranges.
It was totally different.
You know, there were just fewer people we all did more.
Oddly enough, that all the things that were now strengths now and the divisions that we now have, the imprints that John has formalized, all had their roots then and even before that, you know.
And things were different then.
I mean, it was a very different world.
The editions then, which now are something that we're thinking about should be electronic and hardly sell any copies at all.
Then we're like, whenever we had a new Ben Franklin, yay!
You know, that was going to be instant cash, and they were going to sell well, and it was a big deal.
And we had a new Walpole.
We'd go schlep up and see Lefty Lewis, and we'd have a celebration.
I mean, it was a very big deal.
These things now are the same projects.
How can we afford to do these?
And do they need to be electronic now?
So getting back, I will tell you more about my own thing.
So do you have any projects that are strictly electronic?
We have done a couple of things.
that were originally CD-ROMs and now do DVD, but strictly electronic, just without a print version.
Yeah.
We've done one or two.
We have.
And is this just an experimental?
It was experimental.
One was the Perseus thing, and I can explain.
The witch?
Perseus, which we did about ten years ago, and we should get back to that and why we... I actually championed it, because I thought we could do it.
Perseus.
It's a Greek... It's called Perseus.
P-E-R?
P-E-R-S-E-U-S.
And it was all about Greek civilization.
It was supposed to be, and it was, we were just amazed at how much you could put on this CD-ROM, and there was all this information, and in today's world, it's nothing compared to, but it was something we tried, but we are, the whole electronic thing is sort of what we're moving towards, but I think that actually, I think what you might do in the book is
using Yale University Press as an example of a university press and what it can be and still be what it is.
And that would make the book interesting.
I don't even think of my history here as just a history of Yale University Press.
Well, you've been here for one-third of its existence.
I've been here a long time, and I've been here through, I think, some of the years that have shown the most growth and change.
But I think all the seeds were there, and they even predated me.
But when I came here, it was easy to know what Yale University Press had done in the past.
How many titles were they doing a year?
I can get back to you, but I would say 50.
Maybe 80 titles a year.
That's a lot.
But I have some of the catalogs.
I mean, I have statistics somewhere.
And there had been many years where the growth was very incremental.
And there were years, and even when we said we would grow more, we weren't even able to.
We just seemed to get the books out, and through editing and acquired, to increase the size of the list.
We would always start out, and then we would never quite hit as many as we ideally might have wanted to do.
But we always thought we were getting, you know, bigger and bigger.
But it wasn't, the growth was in the past ten years.
It's just been enormous.
So this was an entry-level job?
I took an entry-level job.
And it was basically just publishing and art.
Well, you know, I came in because I needed a job.
I just moved to town with my husband, who was an attorney, and he took a job.
We were in Washington, and I was working in museums.
He took a job in Bridgeport, and I said, that is the place with the snow stacks off the highway.
We're still not living there.
We always drive through it.
I said, we're not living there.
And he said, where are we?
I said, well, you know, I went to Smith, so I knew New Haven.
I said, well, you know, maybe I could get a job at Yale.
Good for you.
So I started at the art gallery and didn't like what I was doing there, and then
I just apply.
I mean, really, what I tell my kids now, just apply, get a foot in the door.
And it was just, I mean, I was, I think I was born to be a publisher.
I mean, I loved every, even the clumsy job that I had.
I just loved the idea of publishing books, and I loved the books.
I knew some of them.
So for me, it was exciting, and I got to deal with Joseph Albers, who, you know, lived in town, and we're publishing Interaction of Color, and it was one of my first projects, you know, so it was fun.
But...
And my first job was coding exam copy requests, which was incredibly tedious, but it taught me the backlist.
So from, like, the get-go, I was really knowing the new book found the backlist, which really taught me a lot very quickly.
And was it 302 Temple then?
It was York Street.
It was whatever it was, York Street, in the old bakery.
And it was so different.
This one big downstairs room where everybody in marketing...
It was located with little partitions, but no offices.
I mean, it was just, and in those days, the printing, I think we had just, or about to disassociate the printing from, you know, we used to print their own books.
So there was a printing office in the back.
It was just, it was so totally different.
I thought it was a big deal, but, you know, from my perspective.
Well, at the time it was.
It was, but, you know, now it seems so quaint.
You know, everybody knew everybody else.
And then a job came open in the promotion department, and I was much more attracted to that.
Publicity promotion?
What I was doing first was direct mail and doing the catalog.
And how long did you do that?
I did that.
Well, I kept adding.
I mean, I still keep... Because I became a book review editor in 1978, and I went to Yale.
I've always been getting Yale books, and I review them every year.
I love them.
And I'm wondering if I ever worked with you back in the... I supervised the publicity people after a couple of years.
Sarah Clark, I think, did a lot of work for me.
And she's still here.
And she and I go way back.
Oh, you should.
Well, she would work for me.
I actually, when I was in promotion, so my first thing was I did the catalog and I did direct mail and the big innovation that I made.
Because I had a designer that I worked with.
And I mean, I was making this aesthetic salary.
But I liked the visual end of it and I liked the writing end of it.
And I said, why does our catalog have to look so dull?
Why can't we shorten the copy, add illustrations?
Why do the ads have to look like text?
Believe it or not, the big innovation was to use illustrations more and make things look nicer.
You do a wonderful catalog.
And I see every catalog.
Since I think I started supervising the catalog in 72 or 73, and I used to write it all.
I mean, this is the size of the press, is that I could not only see it through production, but I wrote the copy.
And we now have somebody who does nothing but write copies.
And I wrote the copy.
And the other big innovation I made at the time was telling the editors, resting away writing copies from the editors, who wrote a copy that was not appearing.
He was too academic.
So I did the catalog.
And then we had this big purge through a couple of bad years.
And the staff was reduced.
And I was not fired, but I was given more responsibility.
So I took on advertising.
Or, you know, I decided to advertise, direct bail, exhibits, publicism, and then, you know, just Chester just kept adding things to me.
And I had staff.
And at first it was a tiny staff, but then it grew, and I started just making people specialize in various areas as the number of books increased and as we changed our focus.
So I can tell you about the growth and how we did marketing, but it went from just when I took it on, I thought it was incredibly...
And we did so little publicity.
And then we hired a publicist named Anne Emanuel.
She worked for me.
And then, you know, we just, and then Sarah came on and, you know, and then we, you know, we really increased the staff.
And we specialized until now.
I've actually made them three separate departments.
One is promotion, one is publicity, and one is sales.
Which is really something for University Press to have a promotion at a publicity department, I guess.
Not so much.
I mean, not so much.
I mean, in general, I mean, you know, because University Press, it is a world that's very liberal.
Well, more and more.
And actually, in our publicity department, I think in the past even three years, is the one I, and maybe five, have expanded the most, because that's where it all happens.
And then, you know, if we ever got a review in the New York Times book review, I mean, we practically broke out the champagne.
You know, and now my level of expectation is we should always, you know, there should always be several, more than several a year.
So it was very different, you know.
I mean, it was sweet, you know, when I think back about it.
And I remember then we had this, when I first joined, I thought it was so male-dominated, and all the leaders, all the senior positions were men, and they all had two first names.
And I remember coming home and saying to my husband, I said,
Everybody has two first dates, Pratt, Chester Kerr, you know, and they wear coats with little velvet combs.
I said, I'm from the Upper West Side of New York.
I am so out of place here.
This is like, who are these people?
They dress funny, you know, they have, and women, and I remember I wore flax to work one day.
Did they raise eyebrows?
They were such a hoo-ha, and there was this guy, John Burrell, who used to be...
It was kind of an important idea, but he was a lovely man who sort of served the lunches and brought around a coffee cart and da-da-da.
And he said, he was a great guy.
He knew more about the people than anybody.
And he said, you know, at Yale University Press, women don't wear pants.
And I being, you know, this brash young thing said they do now.
Was this early?
This was right away.
You'll never last.
That was a big deal.
It was such a big deal.
When I went to work for my newspaper in 71, and this is a newsroom, there was a woman, a reporter, because I was fresh out of the service at that point myself, and I was like, boy, I was really amazed.
This gal's wearing, she looked great.
I couldn't believe that this was going to be such a hoo-ha.
What kind of place is this, you know?
So nobody ever told you not to?
Nobody ever told me I couldn't, but it raised eyebrows, and then other women did.
And they get used to it?
No, yeah.
How many women were here?
You know, it'd be interesting to know the breakdown.
There were a lot of women.
There were always a lot of women, but there were no women, and there were some women editors who had fairly high positions.
You should talk to Marion Ash and Jane Isay.
They're still around?
Jane is.
Jane left here.
Marion, I-O-N?
Marion O-N, I think.
Ash, A-S-H.
Maybe A-S.
Marion and Neil Ash, A-S-H, no E. And the other woman?
Marion lives in Bethany, and she's still, she was a brilliant political science editor.
And Jane Isay, who actually is my best friend to the day, I-S-A-Y, was a young editor who was building the psychology and philosophy with
and doing some trade books and lawless, and she created... Chester was really very instrumental in saying that a university press could do a trade book and a general interest book.
So you think he really was the one who got that going?
I think he got that going.
What were some of the earliest successes there?
Well, the biggest success, the one that made the New York Times Book Review,
And actually, after you do your research, you'll remind me of the timing of these things.
Oh, I wouldn't know where you're just going.
It was called, what was it called?
It was by a guy who had been in the Secret Service, the M2 or whatever it was, in England, and it was called The Double Cross System or something.
And it was sort of a memoir of espionage after the war, and Chester...
It was a very bold thing to do, and we published it as a trade book.
We did the impeachment book.
And Chester was the original publicist.
In the days when we hardly had a publicity department, Chester knew everybody in New York.
And he would go to the Times himself.
He had a knack for generating publicity.
He wasn't a nice man.
I'm sorry?
Yeah, I've heard conflicting things about him.
But I'll give him a lot of credit, though I disagreed with him a lot.
He promoted me a lot.
But he treated women who treated not well here.
Ed Morgan did not have nice things.
He was not a nice man.
But I will credit him with giving, putting Yale Press on the map.
And he would do adventures in projects.
He did this in the map.
He knew how to operate in New York World, which most university press directors did not know.
And I learned a lot from him.
He was very aggressive about advertising and publicity.
Some of it was self-aggrandizing, admittedly.
But he did a great, you know, he really knew how to do that.
Oh, John, you said, you know, depressing thing why.
Oh, definitely.
You know, and if you didn't agree with Chester, you were really out of here.
Yeah, except for, you know, if you were, he really admired my gumption.
I really went up against him often, because I would tell him I thought he treated people badly.
Didn't bother him.
It didn't, because he knew it, you know, but he was less, and also I think he was less threatened by, I mean, a young woman wasn't going to get very far.
But he kept annoying me.
He really gave me a lot of responsibility.
He paid me terribly.
Always?
Always.
Well, I always got raises mysteriously, and I always knew that the reason I got a raise mysteriously was because some young man with less experience had just been hired.
Probably for more money, too.
Just a kick, isn't it?
I have two daughters, so I'm very sympathetic.
I mean, this was a very sexist environment.
I mean, I have done very well in it, and I don't think it's that way now.
But when I joined here, it was various sexist environments.
Well, you were one of the pioneers.
And when I got pregnant... Did you realize it at the time?
I realized at the time, because, remember, I came from New York, and clearly, you know, that it's a little bit of a feminist, and Smith is somewhat of a feminist, that women were treated appallingly.
I mean, Smith is... If women do have that... You know, you were encouraged to think that you could do anything a man could do.
So it was... Can I get that?
Uh...
I'm not going here.
I'll just let it go, because then I'll get involved in the BMS.
It was, you know, the men here didn't feel that way.
I mean, I was very aware that it was a sexist environment, and there was a guy in the camping who treated the women there.
I think we have a union to this day, because people, yeah, voted for a union because they didn't feel they were treated well, and they weren't.
And there was a guy who, you know, in some ways I thought I was fond of him, but he was appalling to him.
And he was the head of our business office.
And he once spoke to me so rudely that, and I am not, you know, a confrontational person, but I said, if you ever speak to me or another woman that way again, I'll hold your ass into court so quickly it'll make your head spin.
He just provoked me so much.
And I interrupted you.
You said when you became pregnant, what?
Even when I became pregnant, I got pregnant in 1974.
And when they found out I was pregnant, they said, well, when will you be leaving?
And I said, I won't be.
Were there safeguards then?
Could you take leave?
Well, I had to actually get my husband to find a state statute that said that I could continue to work.
But they made me get a note from my doctor.
Certify that you're pregnant?
No, to certify the fact that I wasn't going to, you know, it wasn't going to kill me to go to work.
You know, and it made everybody... Because those laws are just about coming in around then.
It was just, and then I said, you know, I have the right, there was no maternity leave, but I had the right to take my vacation and my sick time.
There was no maternity leave?
But I had the right was you could take sick leave, and you could take vacation, and I think you could go leave.
I never had to go without pay because I came back so soon.
But across the board, everybody was appalled.
A pregnant woman actually worked through her delivery day.
I was here on my delivery day.
I was two weeks late.
I was in the office that morning.
Three times.
Well, you can do it.
I mean, the bottom line, people do it all the time now.
But it was such a hassle, and there was so much opposition.
Chester, in a way, almost not more than anybody else, but kind of surprised.
But he's that kind of guy that he admired somebody's gumption to do that.
But just to show you how backward it was, it was, you know, they were amazed.
But Chester liked kids, so, you know, occasionally I'd bring my babies in.
How many children?
I had, as a matter of fact, there's a great story.
I have three.
So I had the one, I came back, and then we did this annual meeting once a year, which was in 19...
We did an annual meeting of AAUP here in New Haven, and Jane and I were the co-chairs.
And I remember at the last dinner, I was feeling so sick.
So I went to the doctor, and afterward we had this lunch.
after the whole thing was over, Chester, this is the kind of person you would say, you and Jane did a great job.
She was in charge of the program, and I was in charge of the local arrangements or something.
He said, you did a great job.
He says, now you could get pregnant again if you wanted.
And it so happened, I was.
And then I went to the doctor, and I couldn't, I would never have told somebody that early.
And I went back to them the next day, and they said, okay, Chester, did it.
He said, but I said, I'm pregnant.
And he said, you know, I didn't really mean to take it that seriously.
But by that time, I have to say that he still thought it was weird.
But it was amazing to me as a young woman that there could be so much opposition and such discomfort to the fact that women would have a career and a family.
And it wasn't just the men.
I mean, there were women here who were just appalled.
So you work in just about every facet of, uh... So I did everything in marketing at some, and I kept expanding, and the list kept expanding, and our budgets kept expanding, and I was given more staff.
And so then I went, you know, for promotion.
I was the promotion manager.
I was direct mail manager, then promotion manager, then marketing manager, then marketing director, then the first woman associate director of the press.
And at that time, I was the only associate director.
I'll look it up.
I was the only associate director at that point.
I was assistant director, then made associate director, and then made, about ten years ago, publishing director to clarify the fact that I was not just doing marketing then.
I was working with editors.
I was working with the London office.
I was doing a lot of the number crunching.
And when you went to Smith, you never knew you'd be into publishing?
No, I actually thought I would work in museums.
And do you think that, because you've been around the business now for almost thirty-five years, thirty-four years, is this something that would have the same appeal for you, do you think, say, in a trade press in New York?
Or is there something special about this dynamic here?
You know, I think I would have enjoyed trade publishing, too.
I mean, I think that I am just, I love the idea of books.
I love, what I like about academic publishing is I like the challenge of finding a target market for a book, and so many of our books are target markets.
You know, there's an academic discipline.
I like, it's been like going to graduate school.
I mean, I've read in so many areas, and for a long time I read every single book.
Read and learned.
I mean, it's something to read.
And I was interested.
So I loved, you know, psychology.
I learned something about political science, about current events, you know.
Fortunately, politically, Chester and I were on the same page, which was a good thing, I guess, because... You were or you weren't?
We were.
Really?
Yeah, he was a good Democrat.
Was he?
Yeah.
Boy, that's surprising.
It was surprising, but he actually was, you know, in his way, you know.
Very surprising at Yale, I may say so.
He was, well, yeah, he was, um, and he didn't shy away from controversy, you know.
To his credit, I would say that he acted in shy way.
He looked for it.
And he was supportive in some ways, but he wasn't a nice guy.
He hurt a lot of people, and he fired people.
I love you.
And I didn't always agree with him, but I did learn from him.
And he had a very personal approach.
And he did some things like he would bring people in to talk to the staff.
I remember he brought George Bush in when George Bush was at the CIA.
And he came in.
This is an amazing story.
Yeah, I like to hear that.
He came in.
He gave a talk.
This is Herbert Walker, the father who was the director of the CIA.
This is long before he becomes president.
This is the first George Bush.
George Herbert Walker.
He was at the CIA at the time, and Chester, because we had done this double-cross system.
That was the first entry.
He kind of came in and he was talking, you know, so Chester had this interest in spies, blah, blah, blah, and he knew him, he came in.
He was so unimpressive, I can't begin to tell you.
Unimpressive.
And all I remembered from him, I said, here's this guy to see him.
And he was talking about the importance of maps to the CIA.
Bush was.
And I remember Jane and I, who were very, you know, hindered spirits, and she sort of took me under her wing, and she sort of mentored me.
And we sat up and said, can you believe that guy?
He's talking.
All this stuff going on in the world, and he's talking about the importance of maps?
Well, this is the guy who didn't tell you how much a gallon of milk cost, either.
I know.
It was amazing.
But he would bring in, oh, my favorite story.
He once brought Alfred Knopf in, who was a friend of his, and he gave us a talk, and then he said, and I was like a junior, junior with this beat-up car, and he said, could you take Alfred Knopf to the train station?
Who this is?
Chester said, because I'm busy, and I said, I'll be happy to.
So I put him in my car, and
He sits down and he goes, ow, and he sat on one of my son's dinosaurs, the plastic dinosaurs.
And I came back and said, I was so mortified that Alfred Knopf sat down on a dinosaur.
Was he nice?
He was fabulous.
But he didn't, he wasn't put off above being?
No, he thought it was funny.
And I, you know, he thought I was a kid.
I was a kid.
You know, and I was like.
Every train station is just down here.
And I was Alfred Knopf, you know, in my car, you know.
That's funny.
I was absolutely, and that was a great thing.
And Chester would have dinner parties, and he and
For some reason, he would include me, even though I was such a junior.
Well, you were a woman, though.
You think there was an element of tokenism in it?
Yeah, it was a tokenism, and occasionally if he had a Jewish author, he was entertaining.
He dragged me out.
And one time I said to John, we're going to a very high-level dinner, and I said, I can't understand why I'm included.
And then there was somebody there, and I said, ah.
I got it.
Uh-huh.
I mean, the tokenism was so there.
But hey.
As long as you understand it?
I understood it, and I got to meet some interest, and he was very good in that way.
I mean, you know, he was this kind of very, it was a very personally run house from them.
You know, Chester was sore.
But, and it was, and there were some good things and bad things about that, but he definitely, yes, you know, he really acted as if Yale University Press was up there with the U.S., the New York publishers.
And if I didn't work here and didn't want to have three children and worked in my career, I might have left.
But it was great for me.
I always got promoted.
I never have been born to this day.
So if you were me and you were embarking on a centennial history of the press, what would you like to see?
kind of book that really kind of celebrates the history of the press, knowing the kinds of things that I write.
I mean, I'm just telling stories.
I think they're stories that are interesting here.
I really don't want to bore people, or at least of all myself.
But I think the biggest story is, and I don't actually know how I would do this, but I think of it because, after all, you know, for such a long time, is realizing how much it has changed, but how much what a university press is, and
reflects a corner of publishing.
Well, is it a division of the university, I guess?
Well, it's both, but it really more and more and more had to be really business-oriented, because when I first came here, I thought the level of business sophistication was nowhere, and I wasn't even MBA-trained.
But things were easy.
Libraries bought so many of our books.
It didn't matter what you did.
They had standing orders.
So you didn't even have to promote them to libraries.
You didn't have to price them for libraries.
You didn't have to get information to them.
They just out the door.
They had a dedicated budget, and they were on standing order.
Out the door.
So immediately you had a stable income, and you had even the most monographic book.
And the books we do today are equally as monographic as they were then.
I mean, you know, they would just sell so much better.
Define for me what you mean by a monographic book.
A book that was really just an academic audience and a very narrow topic.
Because they always use the word interchangeably.
It doesn't mean anything anymore.
But, you know, it was books that weren't for the general reader, that were very narrow.
debate whether they're going to buy them or not.
And there are books that we now sell three to 500 copies of.
We used to sell easily 1,000 to 1,500 without even trying that hard, because the library sale was so huge.
And there were some books that we did for courses, like some of the language books we did then, the DeFrancis Chinese series.
You know, you just walked in, and they did well.
And we published, I bet, though I've never looked at it, we published a higher percentage of Yale authors.
Because this was way before they were all courted by New York places.
Yeah.
See, I heard that the press was always kind of slobbish about that, that they more or less, if you were at Yale, I think you really ought to prove yourself, because they wanted to demonstrate their white appeal.
Well, we always made sure that we, you know, that we protected the integrity of saying, just because you were at Yale doesn't mean you get a rubber stamp.
But there were a lot of people at Yale that would come here first, which isn't necessarily the truth, you know, true now, because they're courted elsewhere.
But, you know, I don't actually, you know, from my early years, because I wasn't part of the decision-making process of what we published, which I have been for many years now, but I bet we got more Yale submissions, and percentage-wise they have done more.
So you're part of the process in the board?
The publishing committee.
The board is something different.
Right.
That's two different things.
Two very different things.
And the publishing committee.
The publications committee is made out of faculty.
And it's actually a bigger committee now than it used to be, but that's been a constant.
I mean, there are some things that were remarkably consistent at Yale University Press.
But the biggest difference is
among the big differences from when I first started here, the business level sophistication was nowhere.
I mean, you know, you just had to pay your bills, and Chester was very fast and furious with his own personal budgets of what, you know, if you wanted to do something, you just did it.
You know, we weren't as mindful.
But it was easy, you know, you didn't have such tough years because things just sold.
These editions sold like crazy.
I mean, things, it wasn't so hard.
It seemed easier.
Though at the time, we would think it was hard.
But in retrospect, it was easier.
And there was always kind of little windfalls.
I mean, the new edition that it's hard to imagine today when we're so struggling to figure out how we can continue to do these specialized editions because nobody buys them when we would look forward to the day when there was a new volume in one of these because the library sales.
So you had something like
The first volume of Franklin probably sold 6,500 copies.
Wow.
And we now sell under 1,000.
It's a big difference.
And yet you're still committed to seeing it.
Yeah, because, I mean, that's, but instead of being something that was like kind of a foundation and an anchor.
6,500 is pretty good sales.
Yeah.
I mean, I'll look up lots of stuff if you want to find all that stuff out, but I think that's pretty much true.
That would be a good one.
And that, the first volume in that series was published later.
You know what?
I have a printout.
That should tell me.
So we can, we can, there are sales figures for all these books, right?
Yep.
The first volume one was in 1959, and it's, I'm wrong, it sold 8,000.
Wow.
That's even more, isn't it?
Yeah.
And how about the most recent?
And the most recent one was published in something along here, like this.
It says 95, but I'm sure there's been some since then.
women.
Well, how many years did the 1995?
The 1995, one sold 800.
800?
That was volume what in the series that you said?
Oh, I know what this is, but this one is still over.
That was, that was volume 31.
Let me see if there's something more recently.
Okay, volume 37.
I'm missing you.
Volume 37.
Thirty-seven.
Volume thirty-seven.
Published 2004.
2004.
650.
[Knocking.] Hi.
Hi.
I'm so engrossed.
Oh, it's fun.
It's making me feel very old.
You're taking Nick off.
I am, if that's okay.
What time?
A couple minutes, is that?
Oh, God, it's already 12.
You and I are going to be best friends before this video.
That's what I'm thinking.
This probably didn't do it, huh?
Yeah.
No, but it's... Give us till about 12, okay?
Okay.
I'll beat you down in the lobby.
I'll be there.
Very good.
Excellent.
I know, but you know, actually, in some ways, I mean, it's good to talk to me early, but then come back to me after you've done lots of stuff.
Yeah.
This is my sixth at the beginning.
What have you done so far?
Well, I've just been pretty good.
I've had John Byron.
I've had Morgan Gattis-Smith.
John Hollander.
Uh-huh.
And I once did Jonathan.
Brent, yeah.
I've missed somebody.
Are you going to do Dana Pratt, who's in Washington?
Actually, I'm going to go to the UK, because it's a nice reason.
But you do John Nichol?
Yeah.
Oh, he's great.
Well, this is not just an outpost to see.
I mean, I've been persuaded that this is a very important
element of the press.
Oh, the villain and us, yes, and Stephanie Sutton.
I mean, there's tons of people.
Maybe we can get together again in a couple weeks.
Whenever.
I mean, I'm happy.
Sooner rather than later, because... At your convenience.
I'm always here.
And I'd love to hear.
I mean, I'd love to talk to you and say, okay, this is what I've heard.
No, what do you think?
And I'd love to hear some of the stuff that you really suggest that I have.
Some things that you really think would be worth my...
Yeah, well, there are some people who... I mean, I think I have this huge regard for this press.
But there's always been things that's happened.
Well, I mean, you want to give a nice little narrative of what's going on here.
But it's interesting.
I mean, it's such a reflection of what's happened in trade publishing to a degree.
I mean, the kinds of books that we're able to do.
Yeah, exactly.
Reflects what other people are or are not doing.
And in some cases, more what they're not doing, more than what they are doing.
And the fact that our art list right now is that we have such clout.
It has a lot to do with how good we are, but it also has a lot to do with others and publishers backing off.
Oh, I just, I get, I still review books and I get all the catalogs.
And I just went through the new Abrams catalog.
It's totally different.
It used to be, I used to pant, and Paul was a friend of mine, and I always wanted to work for him, and I would have loved to in a way.
And it's, because I always was jealous.
I was always jealous of their list, and now he would be jealous of ours.
You can't really call it an art... No, it's so down market now.
But that's been, I mean, the whole art story is... Can't even get a review copy out of them anymore.
Really?
Well, I mean, you get one or two or three.
That I'm amazed.
And I review for ten papers.
You know, I mean, the Orlando Sentinel was just pretty good paper.
But you've always done the old books.
Well, I mean, I do them.
I do nine, ten of them a year, you know.
What have you done recently?
Well, I do it every year.
I do it once a year now.
I mean, I'm not doing them weekly or monthly anymore, but I still kind of keep my beak in the wire a little bit.
But I do all of your art books at least once a year.
And that particular piece I'm able to market to about a dozen newspapers.
Sure.
In Wichita, you know, places that don't really do this, but Pittsburgh and Worcester.
Yeah, I'm happy to see reviews of our books there.
Yeah, and all of the places.
But, I mean, even with a million papers, let's say, or more, taking my stories, you'd think I'd get anything I wanted from Abrams, you know.
I really have to make a case.
I'm getting tired of having to do this, you know, because the book's not worth it.
Well, they're very down market now.
Yeah.
Carol Morgan's a nice woman.
I like working with her, but I have to call her and say, Carol, I'm going to have a bit of books here.
Why is it so hard to, you know, they have a price thing.
It's really petty.
I wonder if that's coming from their French ownership and stuff.
Oh, I think so, yeah, yeah.
Limit your selections to six books or something like that.
Are they crazy?
Why are they so short-sighted?
Really, it's stupid.
Especially where I'm not trying to con them out of a book, you know.
I'm trying to do something with it, you know.
Anyway, Yale has been more innovative.
More innovative than others.
That's a good word.
You know, going out on a limb, trying new things, doing things that somebody else might have backed off.
Even our little electronic project at the time was very...
big deal.
The art list, expansion of the art list, we've done that in a very creative way.
Maybe we could follow up on that electronic thing.
Oh, I should get you some more information on that.
Maybe we can email or something like that.
And now we're doing stuff.
Actually, I wouldn't say we're in the forefront.
I think that was one of the most innovative things we did at the time.
Other people have done stuff, and now we're just sort of learning what to do.
Very big sea changes going on now.
Oh, yeah.
Well, Columbia is doing a lot of that.
Yeah, not so well.
Nobody's figured out how to do it really well.
But I think Yale has, you know how kind of you see publishing houses go up and down?
I think Yale has been amazing to me.
I like to think I have something to do with it.
It just keeps going, you know, and expanding in what it does, what it publishes, the number of books it does.
So I wouldn't like to see that go anymore, because it's hard to do it well.
Next time you can buy me lunch.
I would love to.
Just call me any time.